InfluxDB 2.0.4 (#2134)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.0/reference/release-notes/influxdb.md

weight: 101
---

## v2.0.4 General Availability [2021-02-04]

> 

Reviewer: The `Docker` section at the top of the `influxdb` version is missing, is that intentional?

Most people will probably want to use the DockerHub version once it's released, but we've had some reports of people looking for the ARM64 version of our quay.io image.

Author: oops! added

---

## v2.0.4 General Availability [2021-02-04]

### Docker

#### ARM64
This release extends the Docker builds hosted in `quay.io` to support the Linux/ARM64 platform.

#### 2.x nightly images
Prior to this release, competing nightly builds caused the nightly Docker tag to contain outdated binaries. This conflict is fixed, and the image tagged with nightly now contains 2.x binaries built from the `HEAD` of the `master` branch.

### Breaking Changes

#### `imnem` index option removed

This release fully removes the inmem indexing option, along with the associated config options:
- `max-series-per-database`
- `max-values-per-tag`

The startup process automatically generates replacement `tsi1` indexes are automatically generated on startup for shards that need it.

### Features

- Add `--overwrite-existing-v2` flag to `influxd upgrade` to overwrite existing files at output paths (instead of aborting).
- Update Telegraf plugins list in UI to include Beat, Intel PowerStats, and Rienmann.
- Add `influxd print-config` command to support automated config inspection.
- Add `nats-port` config option for `influxd` server.
- Add `nats-max-payload-bytes` config option for `influxd` server.

> - Add `influxd inspect export-lp` command to extract data in line-protocol format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add `influxd inspect export-lp` command to extract data in line protocol format.
```

Reviewer 2: being line protocol is open compound

- Promote schema and fill query optimizations to default behavior.

> - Upgrade Flux to v0.104.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Upgrade to Flux v0.104.0.
```

> - Upgrade to flux-lsp-browser v0.5.31.

Reviewer 2: #### `influxd` updates
- Add new [`influxd upgrade`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influxd/upgrade/) flag`—overwrite-existing-v2` to overwrite existing files at output paths (instead of aborting).
- Add new configuration options:
       - [`nats-port`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#nats-port)
       - [`nats-max-payload-bytes`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/config-options/#nats-max-payload-bytes) 
- Add new commands:
       - Add [`influxd print-config`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influxd/print-config/) to support automated configuration inspection.
       - Add [`influxd inspect export-lp`](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/cli/influxd/inspect/export-lp/) to extract data in line-protocol format.  

#### New Telegraf plugins in UI

- Update Telegraf plugins list in UI to include Beat, Intel PowerStats, and Rienmann.

#### Performance improvements
- Promote schema and fill query optimizations to default behavior.

#### Flux updates

- Upgrade to [Flux v0.104.0](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/release-notes/flux/#v0-104-0-2021-02-02).
- Upgrade to `flux-lsp-browser` v0.5.31.

Reviewer 2: Are Telegraf plugins new? Or existing plugins being added to UI?

> - Upgrade flux-lsp-browser to v0.5.31.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Upgrade to flux-lsp-browser v0.5.31.
```

### Bug Fixes

- Ensure `influxdb` service sees default environment variables when running under `init.d`.

> - Don't show upgrade notice on new installs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remove upgrade notice from new installs.
```

- Ensure `config.toml` is initialized on new installs.

> - Include upgrade helper script in GoReleaser manifest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Include upgrade helper script (`influxdb2-upgrade.sh`) in GoReleaser manifest.
```

> - Don't overwrite stack name and description on `influx stack update`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Prevent `influx stack update` from overwriting stack name and description.
```

- Fix timeout setup for `influxd` graceful shutdown.

> - Don't ignore failures to set password during initial user onboarding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Require user to set password during initial user onboarding.
```

- Error message improvements:
    - Remove duplication from task error messages.

>     - Improve error message shown when influx CLI can't find an org by name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Improve error message shown when influx CLI can't find an `org` by name.
```

    - Improve error message when opening BoltDB with unsupported file system options.
    - Improve messages in DBRP API validation errors.
- `influxd upgrade` improvements:
  - Add confirmation step with file sizes before copying data files.
  - Prevent panic in `influxd upgrade` when v1 users exist but v1 config is missing.
- Fix logging initialization for storage engine.
- Don't return 500 codes for partial write failures.
- Don't leak `.tmp` files while backing up shards.
- Allow backups to complete while a snapshot is in progress.
- Fix silent failure to register CLI arguments as required.
- Fix loading when `INFLUXD_CONFIG_PATH` points to a .yml file.
- Prevent extra output row from GROUP BY crossing DST boundary.

> - Update Flux functions list in UI to reflect that v1 package was renamed to schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update Flux functions list in UI to reflect that `v1` package was renamed to `schema`.
```

- Set correct `Content-Type` on v1 query responses.

> - Respect the `--skip-verify` flag when running `influx` query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Respect the `--skip-verify` flag when running `influx query`.
```

- Remove blank lines from payloads sent by `influx write`.
- Fix infinite loop in Flux parser caused by invalid array expressions.

> - Allow for creating users without initial passwords in `influx user create`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support creating users without initial passwords in `influx user create`.
```

> - Fix incorrect errors when passing `--bucket-id` to influx write.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix incorrect errors when passing `--bucket-id` to `influx write`.
```

weight: 101
---

> ## v2.0.4 General Availability [2021-02-04]

Reviewer: I think we're going to end up with more additions here. The list I know of (hopefully there won't be any more):
* Changing the binary naming pattern
* Fixing a config-loading bug
* Adding the Flux dict expressions to Swagger

Reviewer: influxdata/influxdb#20708
influxdata/influxdb#20709
influxdata/influxdb#20710

Author: added these
